#### Introduction: looking into data summary and introduction

Climate change is one of the world’s largest problems and is very much real and close to our daily lives. Increased incidents of natural disasters, extreme weather conditions are all indications that the earth is slowly dying, and that we should’ve started acting way before now. To ensure everyone has access to data and research regarding important topics, *Our World in Data*, an organization that focuses on providing open resources for everyone, collected and aggregated data regarding CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions and related data.

    
The data I decided to focus on is CO2 emissions per capita (`co2_per_capita`). This variable measures in tonnes, the annual total production-based emissions of carbon dioxide from each person, in different countries. Combined with year (`year`) and country (`country`) variables, I can compare and contrast carbon dioxide emissions throughout the years and between countries. This analysis will provide better insight into which countries are emitting more CO2 and greenhouse gas over the years, and how much the emissions have changed over time. With this information, individuals will have a better grasp of how much impact they may be making, and by comparing with averages, we will be able to set a goal of what we’re working towards individually to help alleviate climate change. I have also decided to focus on data after 1958, as CO2 emission data weren’t created/popularized before that.

    
The data is collected by Hannah Ritchie, Max Roser, Edouard Mathieu, Bobbie Macdonald and Pablo Rosado, and published through *Our World in Data*. It includes data on CO2 emissions (annual, per capita, cumulative, consumption-based), greenhouse gasses, energy mix and other relevant metrics. It is sourced/generated from professional research sites such as the Global Carbon Project and CAIT Climate Data Explorer. An example would be their recent update, which includes updated CO2 emissions data utilizing the newly released Global Carbon Budget (2022) by the Global Carbon Project. The goal of collecting data regarding CO2 and Greenhouse gas emissions is to facilitate progress against the world's largest problems (climate change, COVID-19 etc); by ensuring accessible, understandable data and research for everyone. Although there are many benefits with this data, some limitations include the huge amount of NA values and the way of CO2 emission calculations. When dealing with the data, there were lots of NA values due to insufficient data  from countries. This may skew data representation and limit individuals from comparing CO2 emissions per capita between different countries. Also, since CO2 emissions per capita values are reported by countries themselves, they might be skewed (inaccurate population estimation, CO2 emissions records). 


After analyzing data with graph visualization, it can be observed that many countries did not have CO2 emission per capita (even after 1985). They will appear on graph without any bar display. The lack of data makes it hard for researchers and individuals to compare and anaylze current situations the world is in. Based on google search, the top 5 highest CO2 emitted countries are China, United States, India, Russia and Japan, in that order. However, the data visulization indicates that United States had the highest CO2 emission per capita in 2021. This shows that although CO2 emission per capita helps indicate individual carbon footprints, it does not allude to overall trends of CO2 emission. There are other factors to be taken into account to view climate change as a whole, such as production-based CO2 versus consumption-based CO2 emission, which are all essential in evaluating the current problem. 

##### Summary Information